Subject: Phase 1 - Read Cutting: Real-Time Simulation of Water Using a Combination of Height-Map and Particle-Based Simulation Techniques

Phase 1 Project Selection Status Report

Name: Tom Read-Cutting

College: Downing College

User Identifier: tr395

Director of Studies: Dr Robert Harle

Please complete 1, 2 and 3 below.

1. Please write 100 words on your current project ideas.


The goal of the project is to independently implement both a 2D height-map based
water simulation technique and 3D particle-based one that operate in real-time
on a GPU. The goal is then to compare the performance metrics of both techniques
and their scalability. Finally, an extension would be to merge the two
techniques in a system which will dynamically choose which to apply in certain
situations depending on what works best, something which has been implemented in
offline systems but not real-time ones. Rendering the results of both techniques
in a non-trivial way could be another extension.

2. Please list names of potential project supervisors.


Dr Rafal Mantiuk (who will additionally reach out to PhD students)
Huw Bowles (External)

3. Is there any chance that your project will involve any
computing resources other than the Computing Service's MCS and
software that is already installed there, for example: your own
machine, machines in College, special peripherals, imported
software packages, special hardware, network access, substantial
extra disc space on the MCS.

If so indicate below what, and what it is needed for.


I will be using my own personal computer with a GPU for simulating the water on
a graphics card. My laptop has (a much weaker one) as well which would still be
suitable. I have ring fenced money in case any parts fail, and have an agreement
with Alastair Toft (adt39) to use his computer as a back-up for the simulation
in case everything fails.

In terms of special software, I'm currently comparing various frameworks and
packages, from using OpenCL to a full-on game engine such as Unreal Engine 4.

The programming itself can be done on any PC which has a text-editor.
